# Data Science Portfolio
Repository containing portfolio of data science projects completed by me for academic, self learning, and hobby purposes. Presented in the form of iPython Notebooks.


## Contents

- ### Machine Learning

	- [Regression : Predicting Housing Prices](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/House_price_prediction.ipynb): A model to predict the value of a given house in the Boston real estate market using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the best price that a client can sell their house utilizing machine learning.
	- [Regression : Bike renting prediction](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Bike_renting_prediction.ipynb): Analyzing a dataset containing data on customers' bike renting. Predicting the bike demand.
	- [Classfication : Human ressources analytics](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Human_resources_analytics.ipynb): Analyzing a Human Resources Analytics dataset to understand why employees are leaving company. Prediction of the employee churn with a Decision tree.
	- [Classification : Titanic survival prediction](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Titanic_challenge_kaggle.ipynb): Exploratory Analysis of the passengers onboard RMS Titanic using Pandas and Seaborn visualisations. Survival prediction using an ensemble modeling.
		
	_Tools: scikit-learn, Pandas, Seaborn, Matplotlib_

- ### Natural Language Processing

	- [Recommendation - Wine recommender system](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Wine_recommenders.ipynb): A wine content based recommender system, based on textual description on what we have on the bottle using TFIDF, BOW, Word embedding vectors and KNN.
    - [NER - Named entity recognition with biLSTM](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Named_entity_recognition_Keras_LSTM.ipynb): A named entity recognition model trained on an english corpus using bidirectional LSTMs 
    - [**Not commited yet**] [Sentiment Analysis - Toxic comments detection ](): Identifing and classifing toxic online comments (Multi label classfication). Classification system is build with keras using biLSTMs and 1D convolutional filters.
    - [**Not commited yet**] [Semantic Similarity - Identifying Duplicate Questions](): Identifing (supervised) question pairs that have the same intent. Dataset is extracted from Quora's forum. The classfication model is built using biLSTMs, 1D convolutional filters and universal sentence encoders embeddings. 
    - [**Not commited yet**] [Unsupervised Text summarization](): 
    - [**Not commited yet**] [Unsupervised Topic modeling](): 
    - [**Not commited yet**] [Multi-label text classfication](): 
    
	_Tools: NLTK, scikit-learn, Spacy, Keras, Tensorflow, Gensim,_

- ### Data Analysis and Visualisation
	- __Python__
		- [Titanic Dataset - Exploratory Analysis](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Titanic_challenge_kaggle.ipynb): Exploratory Analysis of the passengers onboard RMS Titanic using Pandas and Seaborn visualisations.
		- [PSG Qatar version - Exploratory Analysis](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/PSG_x_Qatar_analysis.ipynb): Exploratory Analysis of the Paris Saint Germain men football team's statistics during the Qatar area.
		- [HR analytics - Exploratory Analysis](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Human_resources_analytics.ipynb): Analyzing a Human Resources Analytics dataset to understand why employees are leaving company. Prediction of the employee churn with a Decision tree.
		- [Predicting Housing Prices - Exploratory Analysis](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/House_price_prediction.ipynb): A model to predict the value of a given house in the Boston real estate market using various statistical analysis tools. Identified the best price that a client can sell their house utilizing machine learning.
	
	_Tools: Pandas, plotly, Seaborn and Matplotlib_

	
- ### Computer vision with Deep learning 

	- __Python__
		- [Object detection: Traffic counting using Yolov3](https://github.com/yghouzam/Traffic_counting_yolov3.git): Traffic counting using OpenCV and YoloV3. 
		- [Image classification : Digit Sequence Recognition using CNNs](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Introduction_to_CNN_keras-0.997.ipynb):  Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize sequences of digits using synthetic data generated by concatenating images from MNIST.
		- [Image classfication : Simpson characters classification using CNNs](https://github.com/yghouzam/portfolio/blob/master/Simpson_character_recognition.ipynb):  Designing and implementing a Convolutional Neural Network that learns to recognize Simpson characters.
		- [**Not commited yet**] [Image segmentation: Nucleus detection using MASK-RCNN]():  Train and customize a MASK-R-CNN algorithm to detect nuclei in images from biological cells.
		
	_Tools: numpy, OpenCV, keras and Tensorflow_
	

This repo contains **only personal projects**, if you want to have details on my professional projects or have a chat with me about the portfolio, work opportunities, or collaboration, email me at yghouzam@gmail.com 